Radioactivity example with an average of 2 decays/sec.
a) What’s the probability of zero decays in one second?
b) What’s the probability of more than one decay in one second?

Example: tossing a coin twice
What is the probability of getting one or more heads? X= #H’s in the word
The probability mass function for a binomial distribution:

If a coin is tossed three times, the sample space might be described by a list of 8 three-letter words,
• possible random variables:

Example: X: A lottery game where 69 white balls are used by a machine to randomly select 5 of the balls. What is the probability of winning the game if the order does not matter?

Example: X: A lottery game where 69 white balls are used by a machine to randomly select 5 of the balls. What is the probability of winning the game if the order does matter?


How many different choices are there where 3 pool balls could be chosen out of 16.

There are five flavors of ice cream: banana, chocolate, lemon, strawberry and vanilla (n(S) = 5). We can have
three scoops (n(E) =3). How many variations will there be?


How many different ways are there that 3 pool balls could be arranged out of 16 balls.

The combination to a safe is composed of 4 digits. There are 10 numbers to choose from 0,1,2,4,5,6,7,8, 9 and we need to pick up 4 of them. The number of permutations is:

You have 10 pairs of pants and 3 are black. You have 16 shirts and 4 are white. You grab your pants and shirt randomly from the closet. What is the probability that you grab a black pair of pants and a white shirt?

Calculate the probability of obtaining “heads” during two consecutive coin flips.

We have 52 cards. We want to find out the probability of getting three jacks consecutively if
we don’t return the drawn card each draw.

A bag contains 6 black marbles and 4 white marbles. Two marbles are drawn from the bag, without replacement. What is the probability that both marbles are white?

200 patients who had either hip surgery or knee surgery were asked whether they were satisfied or dissatisfied regarding the result of their surgery. The following table summarizes their response.
Surgery
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Total
Knee
70
25
95
Hip
90
15
105
Total
160
40
200
If one person from the 200 patients is randomly selected, determine the probability that the person was satisfied GIVEN that the person had knee surgery.

a family has two children; assuming that boys and girls are equally likely, determine the probability that the family has:
a) 1 boy and 1 girl GIVEN the first child is a boy
b) 2 girls GIVEN that at least one is a girl
c) 2 girls GIVEN that the older one is a girl

Tossing a die; 
* “an odd number is thrown”
• “the number thrown is less than 3”

tossing a die; the probability that a 2 was rolled, GIVEN an even number has been rolled
is 1/3; find the composite probability

Example 1: X = tossing a die; determine the probability that a 2 was rolled, GIVEN an
even number has been rolled

tossing a die; determine the probability that a 2 was rolled, GIVEN an even number has been rolled

80% chance of rain - log odds

tossing a die

Tossing a fair coin twice.

Tossing a fair die

Tossing a fair coin

tossing a die twice

tossing a coin twice


tossing a die
S = {1,2,3,4,5,6}
E = {} = P(X) = 1/6



